[Excel] (Custom functions) Add custom enums article (#5252)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-custom-enums.md

---
title: Custom enums for custom functions
description: Create custom enums to use with your custom functions.
ms.date: 06/24/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Create custom enums for your custom functions

:::image type="content" source="../images/custom-functions-custom-enum-autocomplete.png" alt-text="The members of a custom enum displaying in the Excel AutoComplete menu.":::

> With custom enums, the members in your enum display in the Excel AutoComplete menu for your custom function. The planets in the preceding screenshot are members of a custom enum. This article describes how to create custom enums and use them as parameters in your custom functions.

Reviewer: The member-centric framing sounded really techincal. I think people will get that an enum is inherently comprised of its members. 
```suggestion
Custom enums give users Excel AutoComplete options for your custom functions. The members in your enum show up in the formula bar as suggestions. The planets in the preceding screenshot are an example of a custom enum that provides a set list. This article describes how to create custom enums and use them as parameters in your custom functions.
```

## Define the custom enum

Define your enum with the JSDoc tag `@customenum`. The corresponding JSON properties are then autogenerated in your custom function metadata. For more information about JSDoc tags and custom functions, see [Basics of JSDoc tags](custom-functions-json-autogeneration.md#basics-of-jsdoc-tags).

> [!NOTE]
> Custom enums created with the `@customenum` JSDoc tag are only supported in TypeScript. They are not supported in JavaScript. To use custom enums with JavaScript functions, see [Edit enums in JSON metadata](#edit-enums-in-json-metadata).

The following code snippet shows how to define and use a simple custom enum as a parameter.

```typescript
/** 
 * A custom enum with descriptions and tooltips. 
 * @customenum {string} 
 */
enum PLANETS { 
  /** Mercury is the first planet from the sun. */ 
  mercury = "Mercury", 

  /** Venus is the second planet from the sun. */ 
  venus = "Venus", 

  /** Earth is the third planet from the sun. */ 
  earth = "Earth", 
} 

/** 
 * A sample function that uses the custom enum as a parameter.
 * @customfunction 
 */ 
function getPlanets(value: PLANETS): any { 
  return value; 
} 
```

> ## Edit enums in JSON metadata

Reviewer: Should this section be in the "Manually create JSON metadata for custom functions" article instead? I think that would help keep this article simple and help the common use case of people just using TypeScript.

Author: Ok, I'll move it. Thanks for the feedback!

The following code sample shows a `NUMBERS` enum and a custom function that uses the enum multiple times as an input value.

```typescript
/**
* Enum of numbers with descriptions and tooltips.
* @customenum {number}
*/ 
enum NUMBERS {
  /** One */
  One = 1,

  /** Two */
  Two = 2,

  /** Three */
  Three = 3, 

  /** Four */
  Four = 4,

  /** Five */
  Five = 5
} 

/**
* Enter multiple numbers from the NUMBERS enum and get the sum.
* @customfunction
* @param input Enter enum numbers.
* @returns
*/
function addNumbers(input: NUMBERS[]): any {
  const sum = input.reduce((acc, num) => acc + num, 0); 
  return "Sum: " + sum; 
}
```

## Localize your custom enums

Localizing custom enums is similar to [localizing custom functions](custom-functions-naming.md#localize-custom-functions). Create a new JSON metadata file for each language.

Note that only the `name` and `tooltip` properties within an enum should be localized to the target language. The `value` property should remain unchanged to avoid the need for handling multiple languages within your function body.

> The following JSON snippet shows a localized `values` object for the planet Mercury.

Reviewer: Consider adding the language that's shown here.
```suggestion
The following JSON snippet shows the Chinese language localized `values` object for the planet Mercury.
```
